README.md, before:

# 🤖 Microsoft Copilot Studio Labs 🧪

> 💡 **Looking for an easier way to browse these labs?** Check out our interactive web portal for a better reading experience: [Microsoft Copilot Studio Labs Portal](https://microsoft.github.io/mcs-labs/) 🌐

---

| Title                                                                                                            | Download                                                            | Overview                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Create your own web-based AI assistant with agent builder                                                        | [agent-builder-web](./labs/agent-builder-web)                       | In this lab, you'll create a Copilot agent in Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat with Copilot Studio Lite. This agent will be designed to assist users with questions about Copilot agents. The agent will act as a learning companion or teacher, grounded in official Microsoft documentation.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| Create your own enterprise data-based AI assistant with agent builder                                            | [agent-builder-sharepoint](./labs/agent-builder-sharepoint)         | In this lab, you'll create a SharePoint-integrated AI assistant using Copilot Studio Lite. Designed to support sales operations, the agent can analyze Excel data from SharePoint, reference policy documents, and deliver insights through dynamic charts and images. Leveraging advanced capabilities like code interpreter and image generation, the Sales Admin Assistant transforms static content into interactive, intelligent responses—making sales trend tracking and policy compliance faster and easier.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| Set yourself up for success & discover ALM best practices                                                        | [setup-for-success](./labs/setup-for-success)                       | Set yourself up for success by learning ALM best practices in Microsoft Copilot Studio—because building great agents isn't enough if you can't deploy, update, or collaborate with confidence. This lab shows you how to avoid common pitfalls like manual rework, overwritten changes, and fragile deployments by structuring your solutions, managing configurations, and enabling Git-based source control from the start.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| Give your public website chatbot a brain and make it an agent                                                    | [public-website-agent](./labs/public-website-agent)                 | Learn how to build and publish a Copilot Studio agent that delivers rich, contextual answers by combining your content with real-time data—no coding required. This lab guides you through creating a branded assistant that handles multi-part questions, reflects your organization's tone, reduces support load, and can be deployed to a public demo website for instant testing and feedback.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| Create an MBR Agent and Deploy to SharePoint                                                                     | [mbr-prep-sharepoint-agent](./labs/mbr-prep-sharepoint-agent)       | In this lab, you'll build a conversational MBR (Monthly Business Review) agent using Microsoft Copilot Studio and SharePoint. The agent streamlines MBR preparation by extracting key insights, surfacing trends, and answering questions directly from uploaded decks—helping leaders focus on strategy instead of manual review. You'll configure knowledge sources, test the agent, and deploy it to SharePoint for easy access by your team.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| Create an 'Ask me anything' agent for your employees                                                             | [ask-me-anything](./labs/ask-me-anything)                           | In this hands-on lab, you'll build a multi-agent IT Support solution using Microsoft Copilot Studio. Your primary "Ask me anything" agent will intelligently route queries to specialized sub-agents—like one for ServiceNow knowledge and incidents—delivering fast, accurate answers across systems like SharePoint, ServiceNow, and custom sources. You'll configure contextual routing, deploy into Microsoft 365 Copilot, and streamline workflows with AI-driven analysis and human-in-the-loop review.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| Create an 'Ask me anything' agent for your employees (30 min version)                                            | [ask-me-anything-30-mins](./labs/ask-me-anything-30-mins)           | In this hands-on lab, you'll begin with ALM best practices by starting a new solution with connection references, and build a multi-agent IT Support solution using Microsoft Copilot Studio. Your primary "Ask me anything" agent will intelligently route queries to specialized sub-agents—like one for ServiceNow knowledge and incidents—delivering fast, accurate answers across systems like SharePoint and ServiceNow. You'll deploy into Microsoft 365 Copilot.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| Create an autonomous support agent and unlock new levels of productivity with AI automation                      | [autonomous-support-agent](./labs/autonomous-support-agent)         | Create an intelligent autonomous support agent that automatically responds to user emails, retrieves real-time ticket updates from ServiceNow, and answers questions using your knowledge base—all without human intervention. In just 20 minutes, you'll learn how to configure triggers, connect tools, and build end-to-end automation that transforms repetitive support requests into instant, accurate responses.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| Build an autonomous agent that uses Computer Use to retrieve data from legacy systems that lack API connectivity | [autonomous-cua](./labs/autonomous-cua)                             | This lab guides participants through building an autonomous agent in Microsoft Copilot Studio that retrieves financial portfolio data from legacy systems without API access by simulating human interaction using the Computer use tool. It also integrates Microsoft 365 Outlook to automate email-based data requests and responses, streamlining workflows and improving decision-making efficiency.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| Build an Autonomous Account News Assistant Agent                                                                 | [autonomous-account-news](./labs/autonomous-account-news)           | In this hands-on lab, you'll build an autonomous Account News Assistant agent using Microsoft Copilot Studio to keep sellers informed with timely insights. The agent scans Salesforce on a recurring schedule for high-value opportunities, searches the web for related industry news, and uses Deep Reasoning to evaluate relevance. It then compiles curated summaries into a structured HTML report and sends it via Microsoft 365 Outlook—all without user interaction. By the end of the 60-minute lab, participants will have configured triggers, tools, topics, variables, and report templates to create a fully operational, proactive assistant that enhances account intelligence and helps sales teams stay ahead of key developments. |
| Source control and deploy your agents                                                                            | [pipelines-and-source-control](./labs/pipelines-and-source-control) | Deploy Copilot Studio agents with confidence using Power Platform pipelines. In this hands-on lab, you'll learn how to automate and govern your deployment process across multiple environments. From creating robust pipelines to handling post-deployment configuration and source control, you'll gain practical skills to implement repeatable ALM workflows with built-in validation, managed environments, and Git integration—ensuring every deployment is consistent, secure, and production-ready.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| Copilot Studio Kit                                                                                               | [copilot-studio-kit](./labs/copilot-studio-kit)                     | Automate quality assurance for your Copilot Studio agents with the Copilot Studio Kit. In this lab, you'll configure and run automated test scenarios, validate agent behavior using multiple test types, and gain actionable insights through analytics. You'll also explore advanced tools like conversation KPIs, UI customization, and governance dashboards—equipping you to ship high-quality, secure, and scalable AI agents with confidence.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| Model Context Protocol (MCP) & Copilot Studio                                                                    | [MCS-MCP Lab](https://github.com/microsoft/mcsmcp)                  | In this lab, you will learn how to deploy an MCP Server and integrate it with Microsoft Copilot Studio. You’ll explore how to set up the MCP Server, enabling context-aware agents, and then how to add it into Copilot Studio for streamlined deployment and management.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |

## 📚 Documentation & Contributing

### 🎯 Navigation System

This repository features a sophisticated lab navigation system:

- **Journey-based Navigation**: Labs are organized into learning paths (Quick Start, Business User, Developer, Autonomous AI)
- **Bootcamp System**: Special curated sequence with custom ordering (1a, 1b, 2, 3a, 3b, etc.) for intensive learning
- **Smart Previous/Next**: Context-aware navigation that respects your current journey or bootcamp progress
- **Responsive Design**: Optimized for both desktop and mobile learning experiences
- **Mobile TOC**: Floating table of contents button on screens ≤ 1366px for easy navigation
- **Multi-Level Navigation**: Hierarchical TOC supporting both main sections (h2) and subsections (h3)

Access the bootcamp through the top navigation or visit [Labs Portal - Bootcamp](https://microsoft.github.io/mcs-labs/labs/bootcamp/).

### 🎨 Enhanced Features

**Visual & Interactive:**

- **Multi-Theme System**: Choose between Rich (colorful) or Minimal (clean) themes, each with light/dark modes
- **Mermaid Diagrams**: Interactive diagrams that adapt to your theme preference
- **Responsive Breakpoints**: Optimized for tablets (1366px) and mobile devices
- **Smooth Animations**: Polished transitions and hover effects throughout

**Content Quality:**

- **Professional Layout**: Clean typography with Source Sans Pro font family
- **Code Highlighting**: Syntax highlighting for multiple programming languages
- **Progressive Navigation**: Context-aware previous/next buttons guide your learning path
- **Search & Filter**: Quick access to specific labs by journey, bootcamp, or topic

### Automated HTML and PDF Generation

This repository uses GitHub Actions to automatically convert lab markdown files into professional HTML and PDF formats:

- **HTML versions**: Web-ready with styling and navigation
- **PDF versions**: Print-ready with bookmarks and professional layout  
- **Generated files**: Available in the `dist/` directory and deployed to [GitHub Pages](https://pratapladhani.github.io/mcs-labs/)

### For Contributors

- **📖 Full documentation**: See [Contributing Guide](https://github.com/microsoft/mcs-labs/blob/main/.github/CONTRIBUTING.md) for technical details
- **📝 Lab template**: Use the [Lab Template](https://github.com/microsoft/mcs-labs/blob/main/labs/lab-template.md) when creating new labs
- **✍️ Authoring guide**: Follow the [Lab Authoring Guide](./docs/LAB_AUTHORING_GUIDE.md) to ensure consistency across all labs
- **🔧 Architecture**: Automated workflows, dependency management, and troubleshooting  
- **🚀 Getting started**: Just edit markdown files in `labs/` - documentation generates automatically!

### For Developers

- **🚀 Quick Start**: See [Quick Start Guide](./docs/QUICK_START.md) for immediate development setup
- **🏗️ Development Guide**: See [Development Guide](./docs/DEVELOPMENT.md) for comprehensive setup and workflow
- **📋 Architecture Decisions**: See [ADR](./docs/ADR.md) for architectural decisions and context

### 🌐 Local Testing

For local development and testing:

```bash
# Start the development server
docker-compose up -d jekyll-dev

### 🚀 Quick Start (For Developers)

**⚠️ IMPORTANT**: After cloning, you must generate content files first:

```powershell
# REQUIRED: Generate Jekyll content from lab sources
pwsh -ExecutionPolicy Bypass -File scripts/Generate-Labs.ps1 -SkipPDFs

# Then start development server
docker-compose up -d

# Access the site at:
# http://localhost:4000/mcs-labs/
```

**Note**: The `index.md` files are auto-generated and not stored in git. Always run the generation script after cloning!

**Note**: The `/mcs-labs/` path is required for local testing due to Jekyll's baseurl configuration.

### Project Structure

```text
labs/           # ← Source lab content (edit these!)
dist/           # ← Generated HTML/PDF (auto-created)
.github/        # ← Workflows and technical documentation
package.json    # ← Dependencies for document generation
```

Commit message:

Fix PDF rendering and enable local generation
- Add Mermaid diagram rendering with v11 and proper spacing
- Fix indented callout preprocessing (support spaces before >)
- Upgrade Docker to Pandoc 3.1.3 (match GitHub Actions)
- Preserve emojis with Noto Color Emoji fonts
- Add PDF bookmarks (outline navigation)
- Fix image embedding (run Pandoc from lab directory)
- Add single lab PDF generation for faster testing
- Use proper Markdown code fences for Mermaid (not HTML divs)
- Fix web portal Mermaid rendering with innerHTML
- Match local PowerShell workflow to GitHub Actions exactly
- Add +raw_html+raw_attribute Pandoc extensions

PDF Features Working:
- Callouts render correctly
- Mermaid diagrams with proper spacing (br tags preserved)
- Images embedded
- Emojis display correctly
- PDF bookmarks in navigation panel
- Syntax highlighting

Web Portal Features Working:
- Mermaid diagrams with proper line breaks
- Jekyll code block converter using innerHTML
- Theme-aware rendering

Enables: Local PDF testing via Docker before deployment
Fixes: All PDF and web rendering issues

README.md, after:

# 🤖 Microsoft Copilot Studio Labs 🧪

> 💡 **Looking for an easier way to browse these labs?** Check out our interactive web portal for a better reading experience: [Microsoft Copilot Studio Labs Portal](https://microsoft.github.io/mcs-labs/) 🌐

---

| Title                                                                                                            | Download                                                            | Overview                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Create your own web-based AI assistant with agent builder                                                        | [agent-builder-web](./labs/agent-builder-web)                       | In this lab, you'll create a Copilot agent in Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat with Copilot Studio Lite. This agent will be designed to assist users with questions about Copilot agents. The agent will act as a learning companion or teacher, grounded in official Microsoft documentation.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| Create your own enterprise data-based AI assistant with agent builder                                            | [agent-builder-sharepoint](./labs/agent-builder-sharepoint)         | In this lab, you'll create a SharePoint-integrated AI assistant using Copilot Studio Lite. Designed to support sales operations, the agent can analyze Excel data from SharePoint, reference policy documents, and deliver insights through dynamic charts and images. Leveraging advanced capabilities like code interpreter and image generation, the Sales Admin Assistant transforms static content into interactive, intelligent responses—making sales trend tracking and policy compliance faster and easier.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| Set yourself up for success & discover ALM best practices                                                        | [setup-for-success](./labs/setup-for-success)                       | Set yourself up for success by learning ALM best practices in Microsoft Copilot Studio—because building great agents isn't enough if you can't deploy, update, or collaborate with confidence. This lab shows you how to avoid common pitfalls like manual rework, overwritten changes, and fragile deployments by structuring your solutions, managing configurations, and enabling Git-based source control from the start.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| Give your public website chatbot a brain and make it an agent                                                    | [public-website-agent](./labs/public-website-agent)                 | Learn how to build and publish a Copilot Studio agent that delivers rich, contextual answers by combining your content with real-time data—no coding required. This lab guides you through creating a branded assistant that handles multi-part questions, reflects your organization's tone, reduces support load, and can be deployed to a public demo website for instant testing and feedback.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| Create an MBR Agent and Deploy to SharePoint                                                                     | [mbr-prep-sharepoint-agent](./labs/mbr-prep-sharepoint-agent)       | In this lab, you'll build a conversational MBR (Monthly Business Review) agent using Microsoft Copilot Studio and SharePoint. The agent streamlines MBR preparation by extracting key insights, surfacing trends, and answering questions directly from uploaded decks—helping leaders focus on strategy instead of manual review. You'll configure knowledge sources, test the agent, and deploy it to SharePoint for easy access by your team.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| Create an 'Ask me anything' agent for your employees                                                             | [ask-me-anything](./labs/ask-me-anything)                           | In this hands-on lab, you'll build a multi-agent IT Support solution using Microsoft Copilot Studio. Your primary "Ask me anything" agent will intelligently route queries to specialized sub-agents—like one for ServiceNow knowledge and incidents—delivering fast, accurate answers across systems like SharePoint, ServiceNow, and custom sources. You'll configure contextual routing, deploy into Microsoft 365 Copilot, and streamline workflows with AI-driven analysis and human-in-the-loop review.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| Create an 'Ask me anything' agent for your employees (30 min version)                                            | [ask-me-anything-30-mins](./labs/ask-me-anything-30-mins)           | In this hands-on lab, you'll begin with ALM best practices by starting a new solution with connection references, and build a multi-agent IT Support solution using Microsoft Copilot Studio. Your primary "Ask me anything" agent will intelligently route queries to specialized sub-agents—like one for ServiceNow knowledge and incidents—delivering fast, accurate answers across systems like SharePoint and ServiceNow. You'll deploy into Microsoft 365 Copilot.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| Create an autonomous support agent and unlock new levels of productivity with AI automation                      | [autonomous-support-agent](./labs/autonomous-support-agent)         | Create an intelligent autonomous support agent that automatically responds to user emails, retrieves real-time ticket updates from ServiceNow, and answers questions using your knowledge base—all without human intervention. In just 20 minutes, you'll learn how to configure triggers, connect tools, and build end-to-end automation that transforms repetitive support requests into instant, accurate responses.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| Build an autonomous agent that uses Computer Use to retrieve data from legacy systems that lack API connectivity | [autonomous-cua](./labs/autonomous-cua)                             | This lab guides participants through building an autonomous agent in Microsoft Copilot Studio that retrieves financial portfolio data from legacy systems without API access by simulating human interaction using the Computer use tool. It also integrates Microsoft 365 Outlook to automate email-based data requests and responses, streamlining workflows and improving decision-making efficiency.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| Build an Autonomous Account News Assistant Agent                                                                 | [autonomous-account-news](./labs/autonomous-account-news)           | In this hands-on lab, you'll build an autonomous Account News Assistant agent using Microsoft Copilot Studio to keep sellers informed with timely insights. The agent scans Salesforce on a recurring schedule for high-value opportunities, searches the web for related industry news, and uses Deep Reasoning to evaluate relevance. It then compiles curated summaries into a structured HTML report and sends it via Microsoft 365 Outlook—all without user interaction. By the end of the 60-minute lab, participants will have configured triggers, tools, topics, variables, and report templates to create a fully operational, proactive assistant that enhances account intelligence and helps sales teams stay ahead of key developments. |
| Source control and deploy your agents                                                                            | [pipelines-and-source-control](./labs/pipelines-and-source-control) | Deploy Copilot Studio agents with confidence using Power Platform pipelines. In this hands-on lab, you'll learn how to automate and govern your deployment process across multiple environments. From creating robust pipelines to handling post-deployment configuration and source control, you'll gain practical skills to implement repeatable ALM workflows with built-in validation, managed environments, and Git integration—ensuring every deployment is consistent, secure, and production-ready.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| Copilot Studio Kit                                                                                               | [copilot-studio-kit](./labs/copilot-studio-kit)                     | Automate quality assurance for your Copilot Studio agents with the Copilot Studio Kit. In this lab, you'll configure and run automated test scenarios, validate agent behavior using multiple test types, and gain actionable insights through analytics. You'll also explore advanced tools like conversation KPIs, UI customization, and governance dashboards—equipping you to ship high-quality, secure, and scalable AI agents with confidence.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| Model Context Protocol (MCP) & Copilot Studio                                                                    | [MCS-MCP Lab](https://github.com/microsoft/mcsmcp)                  | In this lab, you will learn how to deploy an MCP Server and integrate it with Microsoft Copilot Studio. You’ll explore how to set up the MCP Server, enabling context-aware agents, and then how to add it into Copilot Studio for streamlined deployment and management.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |

## 📚 Documentation & Contributing

### 🎯 Navigation System

This repository features a sophisticated lab navigation system:

- **Journey-based Navigation**: Labs are organized into learning paths (Quick Start, Business User, Developer, Autonomous AI)
- **Bootcamp System**: Special curated sequence with custom ordering (1a, 1b, 2, 3a, 3b, etc.) for intensive learning
- **Smart Previous/Next**: Context-aware navigation that respects your current journey or bootcamp progress
- **Responsive Design**: Optimized for both desktop and mobile learning experiences
- **Mobile TOC**: Floating table of contents button on screens ≤ 1366px for easy navigation
- **Multi-Level Navigation**: Hierarchical TOC supporting both main sections (h2) and subsections (h3)

Access the bootcamp through the top navigation or visit [Labs Portal - Bootcamp](https://microsoft.github.io/mcs-labs/labs/bootcamp/).

### 🎨 Enhanced Features

**Visual & Interactive:**

- **Multi-Theme System**: Choose between Rich (colorful) or Minimal (clean) themes, each with light/dark modes
- **Mermaid Diagrams**: Interactive diagrams that adapt to your theme preference
- **Responsive Breakpoints**: Optimized for tablets (1366px) and mobile devices
- **Smooth Animations**: Polished transitions and hover effects throughout

**Content Quality:**

- **Professional Layout**: Clean typography with Source Sans Pro font family
- **Code Highlighting**: Syntax highlighting for multiple programming languages
- **Progressive Navigation**: Context-aware previous/next buttons guide your learning path
- **Search & Filter**: Quick access to specific labs by journey, bootcamp, or topic

### Automated HTML and PDF Generation

This repository uses GitHub Actions to automatically convert lab markdown files into professional HTML and PDF formats using **Pandoc 3.1.3**:

- **HTML versions**: Web-ready with styling and navigation
- **PDF versions**: Print-ready with embedded images, Mermaid diagrams, and syntax highlighting
- **Local generation**: PDFs can also be generated locally using Docker (see [LOCAL_PDF_GENERATION.md](./docs/LOCAL_PDF_GENERATION.md))
- **Generated files**: Available in the `dist/` directory and deployed to [GitHub Pages](https://pratapladhani.github.io/mcs-labs/)

**Key PDF Features:**
- ✅ GitHub-style callouts ([!NOTE], [!WARNING], etc.) rendered with proper styling
- ✅ Mermaid diagrams rendered to static SVG
- ✅ Embedded images (no external dependencies)
- ✅ Syntax-highlighted code blocks
- ✅ Professional layout with page numbers and headers

### For Contributors

- **📖 Full documentation**: See [Contributing Guide](https://github.com/microsoft/mcs-labs/blob/main/.github/CONTRIBUTING.md) for technical details
- **📝 Lab template**: Use the [Lab Template](https://github.com/microsoft/mcs-labs/blob/main/labs/lab-template.md) when creating new labs
- **✍️ Authoring guide**: Follow the [Lab Authoring Guide](./docs/LAB_AUTHORING_GUIDE.md) to ensure consistency across all labs
- **🔧 Architecture**: Automated workflows, dependency management, and troubleshooting  
- **🚀 Getting started**: Just edit markdown files in `labs/` - documentation generates automatically!

### For Developers

- **🚀 Quick Start**: See [Quick Start Guide](./docs/QUICK_START.md) for immediate development setup
- **🏗️ Development Guide**: See [Development Guide](./docs/DEVELOPMENT.md) for comprehensive setup and workflow
- **📋 Architecture Decisions**: See [ADR](./docs/ADR.md) for architectural decisions and context

### 🌐 Local Testing

For local development and testing:

```bash
# Start the development server
docker-compose up -d jekyll-dev

### 🚀 Quick Start (For Developers)

**⚠️ IMPORTANT**: After cloning, you must generate content files first:

```powershell
# REQUIRED: Generate Jekyll content from lab sources
pwsh -ExecutionPolicy Bypass -File scripts/Generate-Labs.ps1 -SkipPDFs

# Then start development server
docker-compose up -d

# Access the site at:
# http://localhost:4000/mcs-labs/
```

**Note**: The `index.md` files are auto-generated and not stored in git. Always run the generation script after cloning!

**Note**: The `/mcs-labs/` path is required for local testing due to Jekyll's baseurl configuration.

### Project Structure

```text
labs/           # ← Source lab content (edit these!)
dist/           # ← Generated HTML/PDF (auto-created)
.github/        # ← Workflows and technical documentation
package.json    # ← Dependencies for document generation
```
